I also think to act as virus is a good idea, for it provides a different angle of view for the player (and also fulfills humans nature desire to destroy something, lol.) From my point of view, this game is no hard to implement in programming and the idea is interesting enough, so I think it is a wonderful idea for the class project. I have some idea for the hardcore version of this game. My idea for this project is: not to control a single virus, but the whole *virus population* with different virus. And you can try to introduce virus's biological properties into game mechanism. For instance, the virus can do genetic mutating to get new abilities: but only a part of your virus got the new ability. As you have many virus, you can manually kill some of them so that the most powerful virus are left and can self-replicate (natural selection). As a result, the player got the weak virus eliminated and the powerful virus survived. However, as the enemy (the immune system) have different kinds of cells, the player have to keep different kind of virus in the virus population so that some kind of virus can deal with this problem (genetic diversity). When your virus infected other cells or meet different kind of virus, DNA/RNA recombination may happen and the virus can got new ability from it (genetic recombination). By using this, we can make a totally different upgrade system. (I think adding these will deepen the decision depth for this game. Though, it will also make the game a little bit hard :) )


Cool idea! This concept is easy to implement in UE4 and the interaction really suits VR. My ideas: 1) add some rogue like elements into this game so the player will not feel boring after killing waves and waves of soldiers. 2) when the player's health comes to zero, the player can do "death throes" (don't know if this is the word), which means the player get power upgraded and immortal for several seconds, so the player can make a revenge to the one who killed him, make a final struggle, and die. This idea comes from the Eradica Titan in Sins of a Solar Empire: "The closer it is to dying, the more punishment it dishes out while becoming harder to kill. Should it be destroyed it becomes invulnerable for a few minutes where it has more or less unlimited ability usage."

As others have mentioned, there is no firm reason for using VR. You ought to have something different from other games so that you can sell your games out, but unfortunately the game now is quite similar to the existing games. My suggestion: try to develop a brand new fight mechanism, or try to find a new way of telling the story.

<!-- This game is almost the same with -->

This game design is similar to "Shadow of the Tempest" which is also a 3D puzzle solving game. The two designs both have the problem that the content of the game is largely depend on the level design. For the spell system may be quite complex, the level design and puzzle should take many things into consideration. In my opinion, it is harder to implement than other group's games and it may take much time. (However, these elements seem to be interesting but not novel. Maybe you should think about how to make the game more creative?)

I think a third-person defence game for the young people is a smart idea. There are lots of defence games and you can get ideas from it, so that this game can have a firm basic mechanism. Then some new mechanism can be introduced in. These ideas of yours are really suitable for new mechanisms: 1) the cooperation 2) the enemy may obstruct but not harm the player 3) the 3D defence line design. There are potential problems, though. 1) It is better to provide some mechanism to provide enough information on what is going on in the level, otherwise it is hard for a player to know what's happening because his angle of view may be limited. 2) 3D defence line design is not easy. Build up a 3D defence line is much harder than 2D. It will be better if you have special designed levels to help the player to get the key point of 3D defence. Anyway, looking forward to your game.     


Here I am going to make a short complement to the slides and answer some questions:

1) aesthetic style: We have not decided it yet. Personally I prefer Low-Poly for its assets easy to make and it will make the game less depressed. But using a dim environment style is also a plan, it will provide a unique style but it will be harder to make a beautiful level. 

2) the story: Story is not the central point of this game. Currently we want to focus on the mechanism first. The story may be two different world collided together, and two mages have to work together to go back to their own world, or two mages explore an ancient debris for powerful items... Just like Journey and Monument Valley, the story is only a background of the game. We may even hide the story behind the items and short CGs in the game, just like what Monument Valley and Dark Souls does, and left the whole story for the players to complete.

3) the mechanism: It is in the game concept doc and it is the core selling point for our game. Here I will try to give a brief concept: The shadow mage can use supernatural shadow powers such as casting a shadow object, teleport to shadows, block the enemies' sights and intimidate the enemies. But he only has limited power to do direct physical interact with objects in the scene, and his shadow magic is greatly weakened in when there is direct light rays. The wind magic can use wind to do physical interaction with objects. For example, move an object to block light (so that the shadow mage can cast his spell), use wind to throw objects to make a noise to attract the enemies, he can use wind to float above water, throw a stone to hit a breakable wall... The interaction and cooperation of the two players, as well as optical effects which are important parts of the puzzles are the core mechanism. 
