Hello everyone,

This reply aims to talk about the question "what if John Prentice was a normal African American, with no particular achievements, would Joanna's parents still agree to their marriage"?

In my opinion, in this movie, John ahs to have particular achievements to win his girlfriend. But this question is not important, because interracial marriage was really difficult at that time. As many of you have made great discussions on that, I am not goint to talk more about  that. What really matters is what this movie wanted to do and why the movie was made that why. This movie, made in 1967, is a pioneer movie in racial equivalent movement. As we know from the history background, not far from that time, for some states in America, interracial marriage (black and white) was still illegal. And most people were not support interracial marriage at that time. It is reported that the actors in that file were even threatened not to make this movie. From that we can learn that this movie was facing significant resistance at that time.

So how can this movie make it more acceptable for everyone? The first thing they did is to make the movie a comedy. By making it a comedy, some sharp contradictions can be softened by laughter and some unreasonable things can be easily forgotten. The second thing they did is to make this story more "reasonable". If we just ignore the fact that the Doctor is a black, the the movie looks like this: a famous doctor and a girl of a upperclass family fall in love with together in a short time, they went together to the girl's family to get acceptance from the girl's parents. Such scene sounds quite normal, right? By high chance the girl's parents will accept their requirement and bless them. The only different thing is the the Doctor is a black. By doing this, the director was trying to point out how absurd the racial separation, and suggest that "things should have been like this". And also, such design makes the whole movie's conflicts focus on the topic "marriage between the Black and the White".

YEO CI EN, MEGAN feels incredulous about the entire depiction, and so do I. I think the reason why the depiction looks so unreal is the director deliberately made it far from the conflict caused by racialism, which was still prevalent at that time. What the director wanted to show is the beautiful picture of racial harmony. As the audience can see enough racial conflict in the real world, the director choose to made up an ideal world in the movie instead. That is what I like about the movie, it is not constrained by the disappointing realistic, but looking forward for a better future.
