ARIEL OH YU HUI mentioned in his post that "this movie oversimplies the stuggles of a war, making it unbelievable to the audience." Personally I think why the movie looks like so is because this war itself is lack of just cause. If the movie tells all the truth about the Vietnam War, it can not rally support for the war. Let see what this movie does. This movie wants to rally Americans to support the war, so it tries to prove that: 1) the U.S. joined this war for a nobel reason. 2) the sacrifice in this war is worthy.  

The reasons for Vietnam War given in the movie is listed as following:

1) Ideology War: As shown at the beginning of this movie, while answering the journalist's questions, the troop showed the items they seize at war to prove the Communism countries were supporting this war, and it is the first reason this movie provided for this war.

2) To fight against the brutal communism government: In this movie, the north vietnam government is described as brutal and corrupt. We can see in the movie that the north vietnam general lives a luxurious life, planed the raid to the camp and ordered the assassination of uncooperative government officers. The north vietnam troops killed the village head who contacted the U.S. army, and driven civilians as their cover in the raid to the camp. By showing this this movie suggests that the U.S. is helping to fight against an evil regime. 

3) To help the local people to live a better life: The U.S. army in this movie offered medical help to the villagers and also offered shelter to the villagers in the camp raid instead of the northern troop *in this movie* who driven these villagers as alive sandbags. At the end of this movie, it also claimed that the purpose of the U.S. troop is to protect civilians kike the boy in the movie.

Based on these seemed to be nobel reasons, the sacrifice in this war seems to be worthy. The characters in this movie die heroically: died in the last day before his returning, died for protecting his comrades, died at the end of an operation. Just like Ancient Greek tragedy, the death of these worriers showed the nobility of U.S. worriers in this war. (Therefore, I do not support YU QI's idea that "the movie is trying to send a message to the audience that it maybe the wrong decision to join the Vietnam war, which may have ended sooner if the America had not decide to 'help'")

But is it the fact? Are these reasons all hold? Is the northern Vietnam Government as brutal as it is in the movie? The answer seems to be not. It is the northern government that won the national liberation war against France, and it is the southern Vietnam government asked the U.S. to interfere in Vietnam's affair. It seems to be only insane government that would drive civilians in their country as cover to attack an enemy base. It is the northern army that really have the will to fight and the southern army is more corrupted. As we can see, the southern Vietnam's army was easily defeated two years after the U.S.'s retreat from Vietnam. Will the U.S.'s interfere really help the local people? Probably not. Supported by two factions in the Cold War, the separated Vietnam lost about one million soldiers and civilians. 

So reason 2 and reason 3 are not the truth. Both sides of the Vietnam War committed war crime such as the usage of Agent Orange and Cluster Munitions (the U.S.) and the terrorist campaigns (the northern Vietnam). The truth is, this war is only an ideology war for the U.S., and a proxy war as a part of the Cold War. But just talking about this is not enough to call on people's help, so the movie have to add many unconvincing scenes.

<!-- Anyway, I think this movie is only part of war propaganda. -->

<!-- It is the northern army that fight for taking back their country back from invaders  -->