Topic 4: Race
====================

The racial divide in America lies at the heart of the society. How do these films reflect the limitations of popular culture in addressing this issue?

* Wang Huaqiang
* A0196556M
* Group 5

---

In the forum discussion, there was an interesting problem: as the white were in power, the main stream of the media were controlled by the white. From which comes the problem that, the movies (and many other kinds of popular culture at that time) spoke for the black comes from the view of white. The colored people can not use the main stream media on their own, and they have to rely on the white's help. That is the main limitations: these ideas come from the whites' view, which leads to 2 kinds of sub limitations: the pop cultures can not reflect the real life of the colored people, and these pop cultures do not show enough things about the black's attitude towards the white.

In fact the two movies are quite alike. Both of their protagonists are outstanding black people. Both of them were not "admitted" by the white at the beginning of the move, and in the move the white were impressed by their abilities and other behaviors. At the end of the movie, the white finally "admitted" the protagonists, called their name friendly or permitted the marriage. Though the story is different, the core is alike.

Then we can start from the main limitation that the two movies are both from the white's view. The two movies keep reminding its audience that the society was in control of the white people and the black had to be "admitted" by the white to take a stand in the society. In *guess who is coming to dinner*, the doctor and his girlfriend's fate depended on the final judge of the white girl's parents. In *in the heat of night*, the black police have to prove his ability, by solving a murder case in a city unfriendly to the black, to win respect from the white. The colored people in the movie were judged by the white people. This is inevitable because the colored people at that time do not have enough power. It were still the white that dominate the social culture. Because of that, popular cultures, including the two movies, try to make their white audience feel "comfortable" and "reasonable". At that time there were still many people were skeptical about racial equality. In both the two movies the African American protagonist are highly educated and excellent in their jobs, so that the audience will feel that "the colored people could be as good as us". The colored people in the movie were respected because they proved that they were excellent themselves, not because of that they were equally human beings as the white.

And then, these movies can not show the real life of the colored people. "For some is not for all." It was not easy for colored people at the time to cross their class, for they usually had worse education and working condition compared with the white. The two movies have little descriptions about their protagonists' family background. How can the black police in *in the heat of night* become such an excellent police is unknown to the audience. As for the doctor in *guess who is coming to dinner*, he was suspected by the parents of the girl because they do not think that a black postman's child could become a famous doctor. In real 1960s American society, such highly educated black were few, and they can not represent the mass of the black. The main stream of the black people were those who were living in slums, were those who work as maids and mailmen, were those who were working in the cotton field. Their life and social status were much worse then the movie's main character.

The third limitation is: the two movies do reflect the conflict between the black and the white, but they probably cannot reveal how did the black really think of the white at that time. For example, not only some white people were against the African Americans, but also some African Americans were against the white people at that time. For instance: the *black panther party* and the *Nation of Islam* in 1960s. Some scenes in the movies do reflected the conflict between the black and the white, though. As we can see in *in the heat of the night*, Virgil almost lost his control when he was facing the plantation owner, he admitted his fault soon. However, there is one reasonable explanation that, at that time, the black were the disadvantaged groups. Those movies calling for racial equality just ignored such things on purpose.

Yet for popular songs, things became a little bit different. We can see black singers sing out their feelings. It can be concluded that different kind of popular cultures have different limitation levels. Compared with the movies, popular songs need less capital input, the relatively low cost made it possible for the black singers to show their talent.

In summary, the popular culture's ability of reflecting the fact of racial divide were limited by their view of sights and their mass media property. White dominated culture means that they will only show things in the white's angle of sight. Those popular cultures that belong to mass media make it difficult to reflect some non-harmony facts. It will take many years for the black to speak freely in the American society.