Power Overwhelming
==================

* multi-player Magic Duel
* Group 4, CS3247


---

# Summary

<!-- You should present a high level description of the theme, goal of the game, the main characters, the flow of the -->
<!-- game, what makes the game unique (use the LENSes to describe), key selling/marketing points and the primary -->
<!-- actions the player take.  -->

* A game players use magic to fight with each other.
* Generally, the goal of this game is to fight as you like. The only way to win in this game is conquer other players.
* Basically, 2 players are supported, we may try to extend it for mare players. The more players, the more fun.
* May also include PVE levels for testing and practicing your skills.
* Further plan: different maps/goals

---

# Background and Story

Useless.

---

# Game Mechanics

## Game Mechanics: Magic System

* Use different elements to cast different magics.
* Various ways to combine elements: the seq, the number of different elements, the hand you use, etc.
* Magic from different players can also interact with each other.
* Support magic included. Encourage co-op in multi-player (>2) games.

--

## Game Mechanics: Interaction with Objects

* Objects in the scene are destroyable/useable
* Throw a giant stone in map to your op seems cooooool.
* Objects also interact with elements.

--


## Game Mechanics: Players

* No MP limits.
* Can equip weapons: different weapons enhance different elements/offer special skills.
* No difference in basic attributes.
* (Somehow using a melee weapon is cool, so we decided to enable close fights).
* Winner in a game get new equipments into is connection.
* Choose different equipment in different scene: (Eg: magic 300% more powerful but casted at only 50% speed). 

---

# Interact Design

TBD

---

# Emotions

<!-- # Emotion and Lens -->


* Fight with other player is interesting enough.
* Full control of different elements, different choices in fight
* Use Objects in map to help you win in a fight.
* Co-op or fight with other players, as you wish. 

---

# Key technical/content

* Game AI: dummy/summoned element creatures
* Game Physics: magic interaction engine
* Game Assets: Multi-func objs, magic effects
* Special Interface to control elements
