Happy CNY all! Below are my thoughts

On hindsight we as the audience can tell that Frank Bullitt is sort of a loose cannon and has little regard for some laws (stealing a newspaper) and unreasonable bosses (Chalmers and Captain Baker). However upon rewatching the film, this is only the case after Bullitt suspects that Chalmers is hiding something from him after ‘Ross’ and Stanton were attacked by professionals. From the start of the film, Bullitt simply follows Chalmers orders to protect ‘Ross’ despite having some doubts about the security of the hotel room. After Bullitt senses something is off about the case, he questions Chalmers if anyone else knew about the hotel room which Chalmers simply deflects weakly by stating that Bullitt failed in his job.

From that moment on, Bullitt’s attitude is summed up nicely in his conversation with Chalmers ‘You work your side of the street, and I’ll work mine’.  While Bullitt did see Chalmers as his opposition, that was not how he saw his other superior Captain Sam Bennett. Captain Bennett always sided with Bullitt even while under pressure from Chalmers and only stepped in when he was handed a habeas corpus. I believe this direction was deliberate to let the audience see that the legal system fails in some areas but is also upheld in some other areas. Faith in the American government and police officers (the law’s front lines) was lost due to police brutality in Chicago, the Vietnam War and assassinations. As a result of the mistrust between Bullitt and Chalmers, Bullitt decides to take do things his way by hiding ‘Ross’ body just like how the general public decided to take matters into their own hands by rioting on the streets all across the US in reaction to the assassination of Martin Luther King.

Now I’d like to discuss how the public may have lost confidence in over a time period and compare that to how our perception of Chalmers and Bullitt change over the course of the movie. Our first impression of Bullitt may not be the best as he is seen sleeping in and has to get woken up by Delgetti to go for work and all Delgetti gets in return is Bullitt’s sincere gratitude, ‘Why don't you just relax, have your orange juice, and shut up, Delgetti?’. While on the other hand, Chalmers is presented as a charismatic, well-liked individual at a function. Our natural instinct is to root for Chalmers more than Bullitt until more of their character is revealed. As the movie progresses we get to see how Chalmers intimidates others (hospital staff) by using his authority and status and if that fails, he’d seek their superior. Furthermore, it is clear from the readings and the movie that Bullitt’s motivation is to get revenge on ‘Ross’ murderers as they were responsible for Stanton’s injuries. On the other hand, Chalmers’ goal is to get Ross to testify at any cost, even after it was revealed that Ross caused both the Renicks to lose their lives. While we may have seen Chalmers in higher regard than Bullitt at the start of the film, most of us would be rooting for Bullitt instead of Chalmers as more is revealed about the two. Similarly, the police in America didn’t just lose their reputation overnight. It was due to the changing social climate (as mentioned above) in America that led the public to mistrust the government and subsequently the police as well. Social disorder was rampant and could be seen in the newspapers daily through the many riots, marches and protests. The news reports of police brutality on protestors caused the relationship between the public and police to deteriorate further.

With regards to the point brought up that Bullitt had values of individualism and community, I beg to differ in some areas. I feel that Bullitt wasn’t someone who was incapable of fitting into society, but instead he just kept to himself more and won’t speak much if he doesn’t see a need to (when he makes eye contact with Stanton’s wife). From the small talks Bullitt has with other characters (Stanton, Dr Willard, nurses, Eddy, etc), it reveals that he is a man who looks out for others. In an exchange with Stanton, Stanton offers to stay behind in the hotel room and guard ‘Ross’ with Delgetti but Bullitt tells him to just go home to his wife. While requesting Dr Willard to keep ‘Ross’ death a secret from Chalmers, Bullitt also stresses that ‘I don’t want your head on a block’. Dr Willard could have refused Bullitt but he still assists Bullitt anyway. After his informant Eddy gives him crucial information, Bullitt asks Eddy if he can do anything for him in return.

What do you guys think of the moment when Bullitt fired two shots into the real Johnny Ross? The first shot already subdued Ross but Bullitt still let off another shot right into his left chest which sealed Ross’ fate. Was it a deliberate move by Bullitt to get back at Chalmers (especially after their last conversation) to ensure that Chalmers doesn’t get his witness?
Please feel free to let me know what you guys think. I’m looking forward to the other responses.